# 10. Codes should have relationships to each instance where they are used

Date: 21/06/2018

## Status

Accepted

## Context

Datasets are made up of observations and dimensions. Each of the options for a
dimension have wider definitions and metadata which apply to that option in all
scenarios, across multiple datasets. These code definitions live in code-lists.
The list of codes in the code-list may not exactly match the list of codes in
the dimension options, due to sparsity or how datasets are broken down.

In order to build a list of datasets which use each code, a relationship needs
to be built between the code-list/code graph and the instance/dimension-option
graph. There was a question as to whether this should link:

- **A) From: code-list, To: instance** -  As instances may contain sparse
subsets of a code-list, this option would still require extra work to know
which codes specifically existed per instance.
- **B) From: code, To: instance** - This effectively duplicates the existing relationships to an instance, as it is the same as the dimension options.
- **C) From: code, To: dimension option** - The extra step to traverse back up
to the instance decreases the performance.
- **D) Don't build a relationship at all, just query for it on request** -
This is very un-performant, and something that can easily be optimized by
building the relationships.

## Decision

A relationship should be created between a code node and each instance node which
features the code as a dimension option. (Option B)

## Consequences

1. Instance nodes will double their number of relationships - every dimension
option relationship that currently exists will be mirrored by a code relationship
