70% 20% 10% Time in DP
===========================

As part of working in Digital Publishing, the development team share sprint time between the following:
- 70% - feature work driven by product managers
- 20% - technical workflows and tools driven by technical leads and development teams
- 10% - personal development driven by a developer, their piers and/or manager

### Pre-reading

- It is useful to understand [Trello Board - Flow of Stories](./TRELLO_BOARD_FLOW.md) and how we use it to organise development workflow as it is mentioned in this documentation

### 70% Time

70% time work includes:
- Product features
- Project (epics)
- High Priority Bugs and Security Maintenance of applications/infrastructure

### 20% Time

20% time is generally used to work on stories that will improve our working experience as developers within digital publishing.
Any work that needs to happen whether it is a dependency or blocks feature work should be handled in 70% time.

Some things that are covered in 20% time work includes:
- Support Documentation
- Streamlining Dev Workflows
- Improve local dev setup
- Training Materials
- Dp Tooling

### 10% Time

10% time can be accumulated across sprints, and should be used by developers to spend a few days working towards improving technical and/or interpersonal skills.

This could include developing leadership, mentoring and inclusivity skills or learn/upskill in a technology or development practices to improve technical skillset. Other options here would be to build a prototype to solve a problem for the development team or wider development community.

There is a "dev-10-pc-time" slack channel available to post any learnings or progression of prototypes to share with the wider team as well as share ideas and to collaboration with your piers - it is not mandatory to post in this slack channel when doing any personal development.

Caveats to 10% time are as follows:
- New starters who have been given a training project will not do 10% time (as this is their training), generally the case for HEO and EO starters.
- Contractors are not included

If you would like to take 10% time but do not have an idea, speak to your manager, technical lead or one of the guilds who will be able to
suggest ideas and things that may interest you or help your development.

### Next steps

- How to contribute to the [20% time backlog](https://trello.com/b/5G8rf9cm/20-time-backlog), see [Contributing to 20% Time Backlog](CONTRIBUTING_TO_20_TIME_BACKLOG.md)